>> My name is Raymond Moody.
I got a PhD in philosophy from
the University of Virginia.
Then I went to medical school
and became a psychiatrist.
And I was 18 years
old when I found out
about near-death experiences.
And immediately, it was just
a fascinating concept to me.
I never had any thoughts
about life after death,
but I was astonished
that every place I ever
went there were almost the
same things like, Dr. Moody,
I've never told
anybody this, but--
and I quickly realized that it
was a very common phenomenon.
And it inspired me in the
career that I had subsequently
of being able to interview
literally thousands of people
from all over the world
who had these experiences.
And so my first book, which
was published in 1975,
was entitled Life
After Life, but I just
had no idea that it was going to
create the worldwide sensation
it did.
What I think
happened, by the way,
was by the 1960s and '70s, when
I was starting to investigate
this, by that time, due to
the advent of cardiopulmonary
resuscitation, it was just so
common for people to be brought
back, whereas for eons before
then, it was a very rare event.
>> I'm Eben Alexander, MD, and
I had a profound near-death
experience back in 2008.
Before that time, I was
a conventionally trained
neurosurgeon of the modern era.
And my academic career, I
trained at Duke Medical Center.
And then was up at Harvard
Medical School, where
I taught for more than 15
years, which means I basically
had been trained fully in
materialism or physicalism,
the notion that only the
physical world exists,
and that if we understand
all the laws governing
the workings of that world,
we understand all of reality.
And then in November 2008,
I had a profound experience
that showed me that that
model was flat out incorrect
and that there's
much more going on
to this mind-brain
relationship than I ever
would have surmised before.
And I think that was
probably the greatest
gift of my near-death
experience,
was finding a world that I
completely did not expect,
and yet it seemed
like a spiritual home.
And in many ways, it was far
more real than this world.
I did not anticipate
that in any way,
and yet that's
what I experienced.
And especially given the
medical parameters of my case,
you realize that
brain of mine was
in no shape to have any kind
of dream or hallucination.
My medical condition was such
that I went from having severe
headache and back pain in about
4:30 in the morning into grand
mal seizures and deep
coma within three hours.
And it was at that point that
my family was very concerned,
they called the
EMTs to come get me.
I remember none of that.
I was gone from this
world by that point,
taken to the emergency room
at Lynchburg General Hospital.
And I spent the next seven
days there deep in coma.
And the coma was
caused by meningitis.
And the neurologic exams,
my Glasgow Coma Scale,
my lab values, MR and
CT, every bit of that
showed that my brain was far too
incapacitated by this illness
and had no way of producing
any dream or hallucination.
But for me, it was an
extraordinary journey
to go through.
In fact, for the first months
after awakening from coma,
it was a tremendous
challenge just trying
to explain how
this had happened.
But the more I discovered
about how ill I was,
the more I realized that this
was really impossible to explain
with our western medical
interpretation of things
and materialism.
And that is what shocked
me into realizing
that it seemed way too real
to be real because it really
happened, but not in
the physical world,
but in a much deeper, richer
place where I was interconnected
with all elements
of my soul journey,
including a birth sister who had
already left the physical plane.
So there's a lot of
mystery to this thing
we call brain-mind consciousness
and their relationship.
And I was just
beginning to discover
how profound that mystery was.
>> I'm Pim Van Lommel.
I'm a cardiologist
from the Netherlands.
I started to study
near-death experiences
many, many years ago in 1986.
I read a book by George
Ritchie, "Return from Tomorrow,"
where he describes where he died
as a medical student in 1943
because of double pneumonia.
But after nine minutes
of death, he came back,
and he had a very extensive
near-death experience.
So I was so impressed
by this book
that I started in '86
to ask a patient who
had survived the cardiac arrest
if he could remember something
from a period of
unconsciousness,
from the period
of cardiac arrest.
And to my big surprise,
within two years,
out of 50 patients who
survived cardiac arrest,
12 patients shared
their NDE with me.
And that started my
scientific curiosity,
because I've always learned it's
impossible to have experienced
consciousness, let alone
enhance consciousness
with the possibility of
perception out and above
your body.
With cognition, with
emotion, with memories,
with meeting deceased relatives,
it should be impossible.
So that's why we started
the study in 1988
to see if there could be
a scientific explanation
for the cause and
content of the NDE.
There was only one question
we had in our study,
and still use the
same question, do you
have memories from the
period of unconsciousness?
Do you have memories from
the period of cardiac arrest.
And they say no or they say why.
And when they say why, it
takes another hour because they
wanted to tell you.
And I know from all the stories.
I've met thousands
of people with NDE
and also tens of thousands of
emails from all over the world.
The problem is that
doctors don't listen.
Nurses are a little bit better.
Family members, friends
will not listen.
A partner is not able
to listen as well.
So there is a divorce
rate of more than 75%
because it's not the
person who married before.
And doctors say it's
just an hallucination.
It's a dream.
It's a side effect of drugs.
Here, you have some medication.
It will go over.
So they keep silent.
I have met people who have
been silent for 50 years
because they could
not share with others.
I know also from the church that
people have went to the minister
to share their story, and the
minister said, get out of here.
It was Satan.
>> I shared my experience with
close friends and with some
family, and it took me many
years to share it with, really,
all of them.
The hard part was, for the
first about four or five years,
every time I would try to
talk about the experience,
I would just cry.
And it's because of that
love that I would feel there.
It's so hard to
even allow yourself
mentally to go there
without feeling all that.
And I knew not to meet any
more with the neurologists
because they kept trying to say
that everything was explainable
and that the
supplement that I took
was making my blood thinner.
That made it so that the
body didn't go fully dead,
but it was dead.
I know it was dead.
And I know because
I was watching it.
The body was fully dead.
And neurologists don't like
to talk about seeing your body
while you're above it.
I've never found one of them
that likes to talk about that.
>> Well, I think one problem
with the near-death experience
is it's so profound
and unexpected.
Certainly for me, as someone
like a materialist who
had gone through, wrestled
with these items through life,
thought, well, I just don't
see a way that it can happen.
And then going through it all.
It's shocking, and
it's so ultra real,
it's such a different
mode of knowing
that often people come back
and think, well, if I try
and tell somebody that,
they'll think I'm crazy.
But when I first woke up, all I
knew was where I had just been,
this extraordinary journey.
So trying to make sense of it,
I would explain to my doctors
the spiritual fascination
of an incredible realm.
And they would just
pat me on the back
and say, well, your
brain was soaking in pus.
The dying brain plays
all kinds of tricks,
so you can just forget about it.
>> Nowadays there's a broad
familiarity with these
experiences, so people are more
comfortable talking about them.
But when I was doing this
research in the 1960s
and '70s, many of the people I
talked to had never told anybody
else except me about it.
They realized that nobody
was going to believe them,
that people would think
that they were mentally ill.
And a few of them
had actually tried
to tell their
physician who said,
oh, that was just a
hallucination, and dismiss it.
They had tried to tell their
minister who said, well,
that's out of my territory.
So there was nobody
for them to talk to.
>> It was very hard to process.
It's so hard to describe.
I would try to share it
with people at church,
and they were very
put off by it.
And I was thinking, oh, I'll get
invited to all these churches
to speak.
Never happened.
And I'm trying to understand
this experience that I've had.
Everybody around me
thinks I'm crazy.
And it was really putting
a strain on my relationship
with myself and my husband.
>> It really takes a lot of guts
and love to give this story out
because some people can
question it, and that's fine.
I don't care if anybody
questions it or not.
I know it's the truth for me.
I know it's my life
that it happened in.
And I got so much education
from many other people who
had had near-death experiences.
It made me feel normal, like
other people are having them,
it's not just me.
>> There was a conference in the
US about near-death experiences.
So there was about 300 people
there have been lectures
about near-death experience.
And at the end, a man
stood up and said,
I'm a cardiologist for
more than 25 years,
I've never heard
such absurd stories.
I don't believe one word of it.
Then another man stood up
in the audience and said,
I'm one of your patients.
I've had a near-death
experience in cardiac arrest,
and you would be the last
one I would ever tell.
They know that these
kind of doctors
are not willing to listen.
>> One of the funny
things that happened was,
the first talk I gave on this to
a medical community was in '73.
And when I finished my talk, the
first person to hold up his hand
was one of my own professors.
He was an anatomy professor.
He said, this is
very interesting.
I'm interested.
He said, but I've been in
medicine a long time, why
haven't I ever heard of this?
So I just said, well, has
anybody here ever heard of this?
And this doctor's wife put up
her hand and she said, yes, yes.
And she said, don't you remember
our friend Helen came over
and she was talking about this?
And so it's that people--
some people, this is just too
much and they won't hear it.
So it's not a matter of
volume of numbers of cases.
The real difficulty is
the conceptual apparatus
for how we think about this.
>> So a near-death experience
is the reported memory of a lot
of impressions during a
special state of consciousness.
And this special
state of consciousness
can happen during a
critical medical situation,
like cardiac arrest.
You can have it in a coma.
But until we started
our prospective study,
the main explanation
was lack of oxygen
in your brain, A hallucination,
dreams, just fancy tales trying
to be interesting, et cetera,
a side effect of drugs.
But it had never been proven, so
we needed to prospective study
to see if we could
find an explanation
for the causal
content of an NDE.
And what we found is 18%
of those patients who
survived a cardiac
arrest told us
about their
near-death experience.
And 82% did not have
any memory at all.
And we compared the two
groups of patients, the group
with and without an NDE.
There was no, to our
surprise, difference
at all in the duration
of cardiac arrest.
It was two minutes
or eight minutes
or the duration of
unconsciousness.
If it was five minutes
or three weeks of coma,
the severity of the lack
of oxygen in the brain
did not matter at all.
We could exclude
the lack of oxygen
in the brain because
of our study.
And also, we could exclude
side effects of drugs.
There was no difference
in the medication.
People had with and without.
Fear of death, the
psychological explanation,
did not matter at all.
Education, gender, religion.
If they were Christian,
or atheist, or Muslim,
it didn't matter at all.
So there was no scientific
explanation at all
to explain why people have
an NDE during cardiac arrest.
>> And one thing when you
actually study delusion,
so I actually did do a
little research on my own,
oxygen to the brain is still
required to have a delusion.
So to be no oxygen to
the brain as long as I
was, at least an
hour, possibly two,
according to different people
how they rate how much time I
was actually dead, it
was impossible to be
having any delusion.
>> There's all this talk
of people trying to give
a physiological or a clinical
explanation for a near-death
experience.
So commonly, those
arguments are, well,
the brain was deprived
of oxygen and there's
chemicals being shot around
in the brain that will cause
these hallucinatory events.
That was not the case for me.
I was in a coma,
my oxygen levels
were being controlled
by a ventilator.
Then they'll say, oh, it's the
drugs, those drugs that they use
to induce coma or
induce deep sleep
or whatever, those are
causing hallucinations.
But the nature of hallucinations
is that they're very confusing.
They're jumbled, and they
don't seem to make sense,
they're not cohesive.
The memory of them
fades with time.
You don't see that with
near-death experiences.
When those people come back
and describe their experiences,
they're very lucid, they're
ordered, they're chronological,
and they tend to open up
more the longer that you
process them.
>> There are many different
mechanisms that materialist
scientists come up with to try
and explain away near-death
experiences.
They're trying to
pretend that they're just
hallucinations or some chaotic
action of the dying brain.
But what they're missing
is, for one thing,
the similarity of near-death
experiences across all kinds
of disease states.
If all these different brain
mechanisms were active,
why wouldn't we see a lot of
very different experiences.
And yet, the experiences
have tremendous commonalities
between them.
For example, it's
not at all uncommon
for near-death experiencers
whose mental awareness has been
liberated to that level to
be aware of ongoing actions
in the here and now,
in the physical world.
For example, in Anita
Moorjani's case,
as she was deep in
the spiritual realm,
she was fully in touch
with her brother.
He was on a plane flying
from India to Hong Kong,
possibly for her funeral.
And yet, she could
connect with him
and know exactly what was going
on in his mind at a distance.
But simultaneously,
she was able to connect
with the soul of her
father, who had passed over
and had very profound lessons.
>> We hear all these cases,
and I've seen them myself,
where the person, while
they were out of their body,
seems to be able to see
something in the room
or the scene of the
resuscitation where it is
subsequently confirmed.
And that is a very puzzling
and interesting thing,
and I hear it all the time.
But then you get into a
question not of medicine,
but of epistemology.
The question then is, can we
know that these things are real?
And I've always been
impressed by the fact
that people who have
these experiences, they
all unanimously assure
me that not only was
their experience real, but
that it was more real than what
we're going through now.
>> When you have a
near-death experience,
it is more real than the current
environment that you're in.
So I didn't question it
at all as a hallucination
or a dream, no.
I was out of my body
watching what they were doing
down below to resuscitate me.
I heard them calling code blue.
I saw the flatline.
I knew that I was dead.
I knew that I was up above
my body on the ceiling.
And there was no question
about that at all.
>> It's so vivid, this
kind of memory of the NDE.
And they say, being
back in the body,
this physical world around
me is like an illusion.
But what happened to
me in my consciousness,
in the higher dimension,
that's more real than real.
They just feel home.
They don't believe anymore.
They know.
They've been there.
>> I would say that is one
of the most astonishing
characteristics of
these experiences.
People often assume that
they'll be vague, and murky,
and dream like,
well, I'll tell you
that having been there, this
world, this material world
is vague, and murky,
and dreamlike.
That world of the
spiritual realm
is sharp, clear,
crisp, transformative.
You remember those
events for decades,
they do not fade from memory.
It's really astonishing
how powerful
the ultra reality
of that realm is.
That's what makes these
stories ineffable, so difficult
to describe, because from
that eternal perspective,
you can see the connections
so much more readily
and everything makes
far more sense.
>> I've talked with people who
were not religious and who were
religious.
And what I've realized is
that it really doesn't matter.
The language itself
fails no matter
what your religion
was, that there
isn't any conceptual scheme
that is satisfactory to try
to make sense of this.
>> My experience there
was more real than here.
Again, it's hard to
explain with words,
but truly, there is
the real existence.
There is the real colors you
see, the real energy you see,
and you just know things
that you shouldn't know.
And some of that has had
a lingering effect on me.
There's been many
times in my life
where I go into a
deep state of hypnosis
or a deep state of
meditation, and I can actually
get myself there again.
>> It's always vivid.
They still keep it alive
even though it might
have happened decades before.
That doesn't mean, by the
way, that these things
are easy to figure out.
I mean, this is really a
very difficult question.
Maybe we need some new way to
investigate this kind of thing.
>> Most materialist-based
scientists have to believe
in a never proven assumption,
that the brain produces
consciousness.
It's their dogma, it's
their belief system.
But based on scientific
research in patients
who survived cardiac arrest,
when the brain doesn't function
at all, you have the
possibility of perception
out and above your body.
Blind people can perceive, deaf
people know what has been said.
And you can ask the doctors, and
nurses, and family members what
really happened at what time.
So that means this corroboration
proves that without a brain
function, you have perception.
That's impossible.
It should be impossible,
but it happens.
So you can ignore
the new findings
or you can change the paradigm.
>> The traditional model is
really one of brain creates
consciousness, that is what we
can see happening in the brain,
like with functional MRI,
magnetoencephalography,
those kind of techniques, they
should correlate with things
that occur in phenomenal
consciousness.
And the general
idea in materialists
is that the material
itself of the brain
is causing all of that.
And because the
material in the brain
is subject to the laws of
physics, chemistry, and biology,
when you pay attention
to that argument, what
they're telling you is
you do not have free will.
They're saying
that consciousness
is an epiphenomenon of these
chemical reactions and electron
fluxes, so there's no
place for free will.
It's all an illusion.
But I would say that's where
they're absolutely wrong.
And especially when you start
to acknowledge the grander forms
of consciousness, like
remote viewing, telepathy,
showing us that we're
really dealing more
with a primordial mind.
Remote viewing is
a skill people can
learn to discern information
not only across space,
but across time.
And the fact that the scientific
community that is open
minded scientists
who actually study
these cases in human
beings who have them
and then try and
explain it all, it's
very comforting that they are
supporting the reality of this.
So what we're
beginning to realize
is the arrow of causality
is not brain events cause
mental and phenomenal events,
but it works the other way
around, that, in
fact, mind over matter
is the general
principle at work here.
And that's an extraordinary
gift of understanding
because it helps us
understand the afterlife, all
the scientific evidence
for reincarnation.
Every bit of it starts
to make more sense when
we see the brain not as a
producer of consciousness,
but as a reducing valve, or
filter, or transceiver that
allows that primordial mind
to project a little eddy
current of consciousness that
we interpret as our own mind,
and yet ultimately,
they're all linked together
as we traverse through
that veil and reunite
with that primordial mind.
>> And so for me, the
brain is a transceiver.
And to understand that, I always
compare it with the internet.
There are 1 million YouTube
films and 1 million websites
at this very moment going
through you, through these walls
everywhere.
It's always available
everywhere in the world,
this electromagnetic
information field.
But you need an
instrument to receive it
and you put on your computer,
you receive some internet,
but your computer does
not produce the internet,
it receives it.
So you receive your own
waking consciousness,
depending on the
code you have, you
receive your personal
consciousness.
So death, for me, is the
end of a physical body,
but not the end of
our consciousness.
But the whole study
we did took 10 years
and was without funding at all.
There were some doctors in
hospitals who were open,
but the majority was not.
Usually they're not
interested at all
because it doesn't fit
in our current worldview.
And most debunkers of
materialist-based scientists
don't want to know about
these new findings.
They don't know
their literature,
so it's hard to discuss
with them because they're
just full of their own dogma.
They're frightened.
>> That's the problem
with materialist science,
is their main approach to this
has been to debunk and deny,
to dismiss.
There are scientists on
record saying my case was
nonsense, how could it happen?
Well, that's the big
mystery, how could it happen?
And that's what we're
trying to explain.
But when scientists obscure
data, when they intentionally
cover up, debunk,
deny, sweep evidence
under the rug, all they're
doing is cheating themselves.
We need to take all
of human experience
and try and come up with
a better explanation.
That's where I think
the scientific study
of consciousness, and
this includes the science
of near-death experiences,
the science of reincarnation,
because that data is
extremely powerful and really
overwhelming.
You can't deny it.
Once you start to
read that data,
and understand how
it was assembled,
and the respect
for the scientists
like Ian Stevenson
and Jim Tucker
at the University of Virginia
who put it all together,
and we realized that
it's really up to science
to accept all the
empirical data and then try
to make sense of it.
And that's what's
finally happening.
>> I am a skeptic, by the
way, and I want to say that
because unfortunately, people
who call themselves skeptics
about near-death experiences
don't know what they're talking
about.
And as a skeptic,
I still realize
that you can't draw a logical
conclusion that there's
an afterlife, its
logic forbids it.
But I don't know what else.
Where I have come up
is that I just give up.
I have always, all my life,
been able to think myself out
of anything, but I can't
think myself out of the idea
that to my utter
surprise and still
very counterintuitive
to me, that I
gather there is an afterlife.
But it's not a conclusion,
it's just that I give up.
I've run out of ways to
think my way out of it.
>> So it is beyond our
current material science.
Consciousness does not
exist in material science,
so they call it an illusion, but
it's the essence of who we are.
>> The issue is we really
need to expand our lexicon,
our language.
We need to expand our mind
about understanding this.
But even though the
words I use might
sound a little foreign
to some people,
there were thousands of people
who responded to the words
I used in the book Proof of
Heaven who reached out to me
and said, I've never shared
this with anyone else,
but-- and they would
share their story with me.
>> You change the way you
are and the way you live,
but it takes years of
loneliness, homesickness,
and depression.
So a near-death experience
is a spiritual trauma.
But as soon that you can start
to accept your experience,
then the second
phase is to start
to integrate it into
your life, that you
change the way you live.
So it's not that easy at all.
That's the challenge,
to be back in the body.
>> They say that, yeah, you
have this moment of instant
ascension, where
you see everything,
but then you come back down
here and then you're in that
struggling part of life.
>> It was very difficult
to get through.
I kept getting sick.
We couldn't figure out
what was wrong with me,
so I kept going back
into the hospital.
And I had 18 episodes of
respiratory failure in 2 and 1/2
years.
And I had made friends
with this person named
Brian, who runs a support
group, called Grief 2 Growth,
for people who've lost a child.
And he had invited me several
times to come on his show
and share my story.
And I would come
up with any reason
I could think of not to do it.
So the last time that I went
into respiratory failure,
I was in the hospital.
I popped out of my body again.
I was back on the other side and
I was angry with God and I said,
just heal me or take
me, what are you doing?
And he said, it's
not me, it's you.
And I was like, what
do you mean it's me?
These doctors can't figure
out what's going on.
I can't fix this.
And he said, you can fix this?
You said you were
going to go back.
You said you were going to live.
And every time I put an
opportunity in front of you
or somebody for you
to love, you say no.
Do you want to go back and live?
And I said, yes.
He said, well, then
start saying yes.
And I just thought it was the
most ridiculous thing I ever
heard.
I said, so you're
telling me if I go back
and I start saying, yes,
I'm going to be healed?
And he said, yes.
And I thought, well, that sounds
like the most insane thing I've
ever heard, but it's
God, I'll give it a shot.
So I get home, Brian
calls or texts me
and he says, hey, when
you get to feeling better,
I'd love for you to
come up to Cincinnati
and share your story
with our ions group.
And before I could even
stop myself, I said yes.
And I went and did that
talk, and I have never
had another episode since.
>> And that is why people who
come back from these things just
so regularly say that whatever
they were chasing before.
Everybody seems to
be chasing something.
I've spent my whole
life chasing knowledge.
Some people spend
their life chasing
money, or fame, or
power, or whatever
it is they were chasing.
But they say after this, you
realize that what this is all
about is learning to love.
And when they get
back, they have
that ideal or that
perception, but it still
doesn't make it any easier.
People say that, you're still
grounded as a human being.
The way I like to describe
it as a psychiatrist,
that for most of us, it's hard
to get through the average day
without wanting to choke
at least one person.
That's human reality.
And you are still
in that framework,
but you have a goal or something
you're looking for out there.
>> And the transformation, we
know from patients with NDEs,
is no fear of death anymore.
New insight, what is
important in life,
empathy, compassion
first towards yourself,
accept your own negative aspects
we all have, and also accept
and have compassion towards
others and towards nature.
And it's all about unconditional
love, about connection.
Everything you do to others
will come back to you.
Hate and aggression will come
back to you when you die.
And giving love to others
will come back to you as well.
Because another terminology
for near-death experience
is experience of oneness,
you connect with everybody,
with everything.
And the third aspect is
enhanced intuitive sensitivity.
If you know what other
people feel and think,
you can see future
events, et cetera.
And the people are very
reluctant to share this
with others because
you have to ask for it.
>> The blessings that it
has brought to me are just
incredible.
I had a new husband.
I had a wonderful
guy who I married,
That's an ex basketball player.
And we have together his two,
my two, and our baby together,
five kids.
And it changes who you are
and gives you this perspective
of helping others.
And I'm not perfect,
but I do want
to try to help people, and
give what I can to others,
and spend my time in a valuable
way of just even just talking
to someone who needs
a listening ear.
And up on the
ceiling, I was shown
that there was other work that I
was supposed to do with my life,
there was purpose that
I needed to complete.
So I think I'm doing that
with what I do in my life now.
>> Then you changed
the way you live.
So it's not anymore
about money, about power,
and there's no death anymore,
they believe in an afterlife.
It's a continuity
of consciousness
after the death of the body.
So death is like birth, a
changing state of consciousness,
that there will never be an end.
>> The first time I had
someone close to me die after
my experience, it was weird.
There was this dual suffering.
I was suffering that I
was losing a loved one,
but at the same
time, I was jealous.
I had this jealousy that, why
did they get to go before me?
It's weird to say, but once
you're there, you understand it.
You understand that you're
excited when your day comes,
you don't hide from it,
you're not worried about it.
Whereas a lot of other
people, they're freaking out.
But if they really knew what
was there to greet them,
they wouldn't be
freaking out ever.
Because I've already been
where this life is past
and I'm not actively
trying to bring that on,
I'm respecting God's plan
and the creator's plan,
but at the same time, I'm
not afraid of it at all.
>> So many people fear that.
They fear their infirmity
and their death.
And I don't fear
any of those things.
I know they're
coming for all of us,
and I know what's
on the other side,
and I'm ready to go whenever.
But I've lost my cousin
who was beloved to me
since my near-death experience.
And I remember when
I got the news,
I took it just like anybody
else who would not have
had a near-death experience.
I remember the room shifted
and I almost fell down.
And I was crying,
and I was thinking,
who is crying so loudly?
And it was surreal.
So it's still hard, but
it's not as hard as it was.
And death is very
neglected in our culture.
It's something that
everybody's scared of,
they're scared to talk about it.
>> It has been known in all
religions, and all cultures,
and all times that
death is not the end.
But we have lost this knowledge
in the last 300 years.
So death is for a lot
of people still a taboo.
People have fear.
They believe that death is
the end of everything we are.
That was my idea as well when I
was a young doctor, I thought,
death is the end of
everything we are.
But I've changed my
ideas because I've
met so many people with NDE.
I always tell people that people
with NDE have been my teachers,
they have learned me that
death is not the end.
>> And so if you know
going in that any day--
my parents are getting
older, any day,
I could get a call that
I've lost one of my parents.
I know that that is
eventually coming.
We all have an expiration date.
And so when it comes,
because I know that
and I'm facing that reality,
yes, it's going to be difficult,
but I'm not going to be
totally knocked flat by it.
And we'll get through
it and we'll somehow
be better on the other side.
>> The goal is, for all of us,
that as those who do around us
pass, as they cross over,
that we love them through it,
that we love them
into their transition.
And as we love them, it makes
their transition even easier.
And if we can, if we believe
in this, pray for them.
It's going to help them
through their transition
and it's going to help us
being OK that they transitioned
as well.
>> So when I do lose someone,
one of all three of the elderly
people that passed
on in my life, yes,
I'm going to miss them terribly
with the interactions that we
had and the relationship
we had developed,
but I know that they're fine
up there on the other side.
I know that at home,
they are perfectly well.
>> People who come back from a
near-death experience say they
have no more fear of death.
And that has rubbed
off on me for sure.
I am not afraid of death.
Pain is something
I'm afraid of, but I
have this confidence that, well,
this is not everything there is.
And at the same time, it
focuses your attention
on what it means to
be alive now, what
is it about us that survives?
>> And the real beauty of the
journey is demonstrated to those
who have had
near-death experiences.
And they will tell you, there
is nothing to fear about death.
Death is a natural transition,
it's part of the soul journey.
And in fact, our souls
come back again and again
in this process of reaching
towards oneness with the divine
in that state of enlightenment,
which is what all of us
are headed for ultimately.
>> And about the fear of death,
perhaps we didn't talk about it,
is after death communication.
So in the first days or weeks
after the death of a loved one,
there's a huge
possibility that you
will be in contact
with the consciousness
of deceased relative, usually to
tell them, I'm all right here.
Don't worry.
It's fine with me.
About 125 million
people in Europe
have this after
death communication,
usually during sleep, because
the threshold of consciousness
is lower.
So people who have died
have more possibility
to have access to the
consciousness of the people
up here on Earth.
And they call it a
dream, but usually, you
don't remember a dream.
But this is such a-- we call
it a conscious experience
during sleep, you
will never forget it.
The contact with the one
who died is so impressive,
sometimes you get
information it's
impossible to know beforehand.
And it happened so often,
but they don't talk about it
because when you try
to talk about it,
it's all just a dream,
it's just your morning,
don't believe it, et cetera.
And that's the same as the
perimortem experience, where
you are asleep and you
get awake at 4 o'clock.
You think of your father.
You get sad, et cetera.
And then the next
morning, you get
a phone call that your father
died at that very moment.
There are so many,
many things happening,
but people are so
reluctant to share it.
And the same kind
of experience can
happen in the terminal
phase of illness,
what we call the end of
life experiences as well.
>> I had a lot of patients that
were at the end of their life,
and I've had a few experiences
where I could see the crossover.
I had one patient who seemed
to be on a different level,
and he was actively dying.
And I walked into the room
and he said, oh, John, this
is my nurse, Penny.
And I immediately
was like, what?
He's hallucinating.
And I realized immediately
he was talking to somebody
who had already passed.
And, oh, I'm sorry, I said,
do you guys need a minute?
Because I was going in
the room to do something.
And he's like, no,
no, come in, sit down.
This is my brother, John.
And I said, are you going to
be leaving with John soon?
And he said, yeah, I
think John came to get me.
I think we will be leaving soon.
And he passed the next day.
So I've seen some of
those situations, where
their doctors will write it
off to the medications or just
the dysfunction of a dying mind.
But to me, when I watch the
patients interact that way,
they're very lucid,
they're more lucid
than they were before they
started interacting that way.
They suddenly seem very sharp
and acute with their senses.
And he even told me
not to sit in the chair
that John was sitting in.
And I've had things like
that happen more than once,
where you can see this
transitionary space that they're
in before they
completely cross over.
>> That's what we call the
end of life experiences.
You have to know that they will
die and they can see light,
they can see deceased relatives,
like a deceased partner,
or deceased parents, or
deceased child as well.
Children will see angels.
And it happens just in
the hours, days, or weeks
before they die.
And they can talk about it.
The difference with a
near-death experience,
they are unconscious.
But when you have an
end of life experience,
you're in and out this
waking consciousness.
So they can tell about what
happens, and what they see,
and what they
experience as well.
We know from other studies
that presumably more than 80%
of people who are dying have
this kind of experiences,
but unfortunately, most of
these end of life experiences
are not recognized and
called an hallucination.
But also in other
circumstances, you
can have this kind of
experiences, existential crisis,
isolation, meditation.
>> After this happened to
me, I was praying so hard,
and so heavy every day to
please let me back in heaven,
to please let me back in heaven.
And every single
time the answer would
come, I know this is
going to be hard, Vinnie,
but it's going to be worth it.
And about eight weeks after my
experience, I met a real angel.
I met my wife.
And she helped me on my
transition of the old me
to becoming the new me.
She helped me into this
new era of my life,
where family matters, where
loving others matters,
where caring for
others is paramount.
So I died in January, came
back three days later.
And that following July,
I was engaged to my wife
and we went to a little
tiny town in Wyoming,
called Afton, Wyoming.
We're there at a family reunion.
We're seeing the history of the
town performed in front of us
at the local high school.
And we're watching the men and
women who created this town,
they're showing pictures
of different people.
My wife looked over and
she said, that's him.
I had described Drake, my
guide, so many times to her
that she felt she
really knew who he was.
And she saw this picture come
up on the screen and she said,
that's him.
And I recognized
absolutely it was him.
There was no
question it was him.
And it helped solidify
that it really
did happen because me being
who I am, I'm very analytical,
and I was starting to
believe some of the stories
that neurologists
tried to tell me,
that a lot of these experiences
are just delusions made up
in our imagination,
and it's just the brain
trying to fill in the gaps.
But there's no
possible way for me
to make up a character
that really existed,
who I never met
before in my life.
And this is what I
got as a confirmation
that, yes, he was real.
So to me, Drake's
one of my angels.
He's one of my guides,
one of my protectors.
And months later, I
got the opportunity
to move in with my grandmother
to help take care of her
at the end of her life.
And while we were there, we were
going through some old paperwork
with her.
And we have one file
that says, "D. Cazier."
We open it up, and it's all
this stuff about Drake Cazier,
about my guide, who he was in
real life, and then about a page
to a page and a half of
all the important things he
was going to do after
this life, after he dies.
And one of the primary
duties he was going to embody
was to be a guide or an
escort to his family,
to his loved ones, and to anyone
who called out for his help.
So it was really a beautiful
kind of a third confirmation
for me that not
only was he real,
but he was fulfilling
a foretelling
of what his life purpose
was, not just in this world,
but in the eternities.
>> I think they can
see us if they want to.
When there are problems,
they will be there.
And the personality, the essence
of who we are is the same.
It's the ego with all the hate,
and the jealousy, whatever--
this is gone.
So the essence of who we
are, the personality traits,
are kept forever.
And it's become
one with everything
in the higher dimension.